in just a few seconds you are going to
see my toast Master's Icebreaker speech
for the path of motivational strategies
and you may be wondering wait what do
you mean Icebreaker speech isn't your
YouTube channel all about Toast Masters
why are you just doing your Icebreaker
speech now I will explain that later but
first off let's get straight into my
Icebreaker speech and then we'll break
it down afterward
[Applause]
at the age of
three I was a confident Communicator Who
Was Not Afraid of public speaking mam
Toastmaster fellow Toastmasters here in
person and Dennis on Zoom according to
my baby book there were two phrases I
used to say often as a three-year-old
the first let's take a banana and go on
a
vacation sounds pretty awesome yeah the
second
I want to kiss a
woman not I want to kiss an age
appropriate three-year-old no I was
setting my sights much higher I want to
kiss a woman what this baby book also
outlined was my early dislikes or my
fears and back then public speaking
wasn't listed as one of my fears in fact
it was stuffed animals with large round
eyes which let's face it that's
frightening to even think about
today but it's some point something
changes because many three-year-olds are
like myself when I was three they're not
afraid of public speaking yet we know
that glossophobia which is the fear of
public speaking is the number one most
common personal fear in the world so
when we unpack why people are afraid of
public speaking we understand that it
doesn't have anything to do with the
fear of physically standing in front of
people and projecting our voice it has
to do with the social pressures we
experience see as I look around the room
and I see Dennis on Zoom as well I see
people whose time is very valuable you
have families you have
careers who am I to demand that you pay
attention to me for four to six minutes
there's a lot of pressure on me to
deliver you with value and that is some
of the fear that we experience and this
fear was really Unearthed for me when I
first joined Remax about 10 years ago
you see what wasn't explained was that
once per month I would have to give
presentations to a room full of people
and what I noticed is about two weeks
prior to that first speaking opportunity
the nerves started to set in and then I
had the chance to give the presentation
and I got through it I floundered
through it but I got through
it and then I could breathe a huge sigh
of relief and I could relax for two
weeks because two weeks later I was now
two weeks away from the next speaking
opportunity and this was a cycle that
repeated itself month after month after
month after month until I realize I am
living half of my
life with a fear of public speaking and
that is no way to live your life so
that's what prompted me about a decade
ago to join this Toast Masters Club and
what I noticed is after about 3 months
of attending on a regular basis that
fear was dramatically reduced used and
then along the way I picked up a few
skills I can confidently look throughout
the room and make eye contact with each
of you as I'm presenting and the a
counter report will come later in the
meeting and I don't want to make any
assumptions but I would predict that
there won't be too many oz or ums caught
from this presentation because it's
something I've worked on and that this
club has helped me
with but I have a
confession I have not been been a
perfect
Toastmaster even though I've been in
this club for 10 years even though I
have a YouTube channel teaching people
how to do well with Toast Masters I have
not been a perfect
Toastmaster you see back in my day there
was no online Pathways program there was
a competent communication and a
competent leadership print
manual and early on I flew through that
education program and shortly after
Pathways was
introduced and I don't know what it was
but I was stubborn I was reluctant I
didn't want to take on this new
education
platform but after some gentle nudging
from the Toastmasters
executive I realize it's
time you see 2025 is a big year for me
my wife and I are expecting our first
child next month a little baby girl
thank
you and I want to be an example for her
one I know I'll have a lot more content
for speeches coming up in the next few
months but two I want her to be
someone I want myself to be someone she
looks up
to because my biggest goal for her as we
start to purchase her baby book and fill
it out is that she's not just a
confident Communicator at the age of
three but someone who's proud to speak
her voice throughout her entire life
thank you
so there you had it that was the
Icebreaker speech now I did a video a
couple weeks ago breaking down the
context it should be popping up right
now breaking down the context of why I'm
am only now venturing into the pathways
side of things my speech also sort of
explained this as well and in that video
I also give tips for how you can take on
the Icebreaker speech too but I want to
break down how this speech went overall
I was happy with it I did practice a
number of times almost daily for the
past two weeks leading up to this
because I wanted to do a good job with
my brand new speech on the pathways side
of things I did feel as though it went
well the evaluation I received was
positive
remarks mentioned that there may have
been an opportunity for more vocal
variety at some point
but I do think I had that element
throughout the speech and so it went
well I was happy with it being my own
worst critic there were a couple things
I noticed and feel free to jump in in
the comments let me know what you think
went well or what I could maybe improve
upon in the future the first thing this
is specifically a recording issue but
the sound I had my microphone on this
side and so when I turned my head this
way it was harder to hear my voice
versus when I was facing to my left and
so that's a note if you're ever using a
microphone or something like that that
you are mindful of how the sound effects
when you turn your head different ways
it should have been more centered for me
to eliminate that the next thing is
there was a projector which shows us
who's joining the meeting virtually via
zoom and for a lot of the presentation
you could actually see some of that
projector on my left arm I should have
taken a step to the right and avoided
that because it can be a little bit
distracting for the audience the final
way I think I could have improved this
speech was the
conclusion I sort of fumbled over my
words toward the end and I didn't draw
too much attention to it I think I
brought it together nicely but I would
have rather had it really perfect
polished and bring everything together
because audience will audiences will
often remember the last part of a speech
just as they will remember the the
beginning of a speech and so if I could
go back and do it again I would really
try to to nail the landing on that
ending so to speak because I think I
fumbled it a little bit I used the word
flounder which was our word of the day
you might have heard the knocking that's
what our toast Master's Club does to
indicate that use and I spoke quicker
this is something I do many times but I
speak quicker in front of an audience
than when I'm practicing so when I was
practicing the speech I was coming in at
6 minutes 6 minutes 30 seconds the
timing for my actual Icebreaker here in
the meeting was 5 minutes so that means
I could have slowed down my pacing a
little bit more than I did other than
that that was it and I hope that this
video gives you a bit of a framework by
the way if you are brand new to Toast
Masters please keep in mind I have been
a Toastmaster for 10 years and so I
trying not to be like braggy but I have
been doing this for a while and so if
you see my speech at a certain level and
you don't feel like you're
there give yourself 10 years right give
yourself a lot of time to get to that
point ice breakers aren't supposed to be
perfect and Polished but the reason I
wanted to take on this ice breaker was
because I was venturing back into the
educational platform of Pathways which I
have yet to try out and so it was a
necessary step for me to do so please
don't judge yourself based on how mine
was but I would love to hear your
comments be as critical as you'd like
because I've been a Toastmaster for a
long time what else do you think I could
have done better were there parts that
you liked about my presentation love to
hear it in the comments if you have not
already done so please consider
subscribing to my channel and definitely
definitely definitely check out this
video next which is popping up because
it breaks down the process I took and
the process you should take when you're
preparing for your Icebreaker speech I
know it will be very helpful to you
whether you've given an icebreaker in
the past or not some good information
there thanks for taking the time to
watch this video